Change Log
=======

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](http://keepachangelog.com/).

## [unreleased]

## [v1.14.0]

### Changed

- Improve core API: Additional `setup_tmtccmd` functions and requirement to user to create backend
  themselves. Makes it easier to directly configure the backend and move to a generally more
  pythonic API
- Refactoring and extending file logging functionalities
- Exposes functions to create a raw PUS logger and a TMTC logger
- Refactor modules to move packet printout and logging to user level
- Simplified hook object, removed 2 static PUS handlers
- Updated CCSDS Handler to make it more easily extensible by creating a new ApidHandler class
- New Pre-Send Callback which is called by backend before sending each telecommand

### Added

- Parsing functions to parse the CSV files generated by the FSFW generators.
  Includes event, object ID and returnvalue files. These parsing functions
  generate dictionaries.
- New function in Hook base to return return value dictionary

## [v1.13.1]

### Fixed

- Return the config dictionary for op codes

## [v1.13.0]

### Added

- New dependency `prompt-toolkit`
- Auto-Complete feature for service and op-code selection using the `prompt-toolkit`
  packaged

### Fixed

- Added missing super constructor call for HkReplyUnpacked
- Extended Op Code options functionality and actually use it. Allows to set custom timeout
  or and enter listener mode for certain op codes

## [v1.12.0]

### API Changes

- Renamed some TM packets to make it more explicit that these TM handlers are tailored
  towards usage with the Flight Software Framework (FSFW)

### Added

- Better handling for scalar parameter telemetry for service 20. Emit better warnings for
  unimplemented cases

### Others

- Bumped some package requirements.
  - `colorlog` >= 6.6.0
  - `spacepackets` >= 0.6
  - `pyserial` >= 3.5
- Renamed example folder

### Fixes

- GUI example fixed

## [v1.11.0]

### API Changes

- Improved API to specify handling for Service 3 and Service 8 packets in user hook object

## [v1.10.2]

- New API to build service/opcode dictionary
- Fixes for Service 8 Telemetry Parser

## [v1.10.1]

- Applied consistent formatting with `black` tool
- Some bugfixes for PUS packet stack
